OPC Registration
Do it right. Get Expert Help!
Registration of One Person Company (OPC). Setindiabiz provides consultancy and support for the incorporation of OPCs. On a call with our expert advisors, learn about eligibility, process, cost, timeline, and the list of documents required to set up OPCs.

Quick Service
Quick Service
Reliable Support
Reliable Support
Transparent Pricing
Transparent Pricing
gRevewtrustpilot-review.svg
Request a Call Back

Name *
Email *

country
+91

Mobile *
Type here
Captcha : 98 + 3 =
answer
Get Started
Overview of One Person Company (OPC) Registration
Professional Fee	Rs. 3,499/- (Best Fee Guaranteed by Setindiabiz)
Government (ROC) Fee	
The government fee for One Person Company (OPC) Registration depends on three factors. Our experts will help you calculate the cost of OPC Incorporation in India. The factors affecting cost are as follows:

Number of Directors
Authorised Capital
State of Proposed Registered Address
Cost Calculator	Online One Person Company Registration
Timeline	3-7 Working Days after complete documentation.
Eligibility	
Shareholders: Only One.
Directors: 1 To 15.
A Registered Address
Unique Name
Adequate Capital (No Min or Max Limit)
Stepwise Process	
Stepwise Process of OPC Incorporation

Make Digital Signature
Choose New & Unique Name
Prepare MOA, AOA & Declarations
Submit the Spice Plus form to ROC
Issue of Certificate of Incorporation
Documents Required	
Documents Required to Register OPC Company.

Passport size colour photo
PAN Card (Mandatory)
Identity Proof of Directors and Shareholder
Proof of Residence of Directors and Shareholder
Proof of Registered Office Address
NOC from the owner of registered office premises
How we help you!	
Eligibility Check & Advisory
Name Availability Search
Drafting of the Main Object
Drafting of MOA & AOA
Tax Advisory
IPR Protection
Get started with OPC Incorporation in India
To register a one-person company in India, you must first understand its meaning. A One Person Company or OPC is a Private Limited Company incorporated under the Companies Act of 2013. It is owned by a single shareholder who is entitled to a 100% share of its profits. So, if you do not want to share your ownership, a one-person company can be your best choice!

Important Points
Single-owner
Limited Liability
Distinct Management Structure
Entitlement to 100% Profits
Perpetual Succession through Nominee

Eligibility Criteria for OPC Incorporation
Single Shareholder
The shareholder may be an individual capable of entering into a contract or legal entity.

2 to 15 Director
The directors are responsible for overseeing the operations and ensuring compliance.

One Resident Director
One director must be a resident of India and stay there for at least 120 days.

Unique Name of Company
The company name must be unique and distinct from others, whether a company or LLP.

Pre-Defined Capital
No minimum capital level is prescribed. However, the incorporation fee is based on capital.

Legal Object of Activity
The proposed business activity of the LLP must be Legal and well-defined in the LLP Agreement.

Note:
Only natural persons/Individuals and indian citizens can be a shareholder
The sole shareholder will have to nominate a nominee during the incorporation process
The shareholder can change the nominee of OPC subsequently.
Only Indian Citizens can incorporate OPC in India.
Section 2(62) of the Companies Act, 2013, and Rule 3(1) of the Companies (Incorporation) Rules, 2014, clearly provide that only a “natural person” who is an Indian citizen can be the shareholder of an OPC. Therefore, a foreign citizen can not open a one-person company. Prior to 2021, the sole member of an OPC was to be an Indian citizen and resident in India. This meant that the person had to have stayed in India for at least 182 days in the previous financial year.

However, the Companies (Incorporation) Second Amendment Rules, 2021, relaxed the residency requirement, allowing Non-Resident Indians (NRIs) to establish OPCs in India. The following is the current position with respect to nationality.

Indian Citizens	Foreign Nationals
An Indian Citizen, regardless of their residential status (resident or non-resident), can incorporate an OPC in India.	Foreign Citizens/nationals can not incorporate OPC in India.
List of Documents For OPC Incorporation
As experienced consultants specializing in company registration, we at Setindiabiz recognize the significance of documentation in facilitating a seamless and successful registration process for an One Person Company. To simplify the process for our clients, we have created a comprehensive table below that outlines all the essential documents needed for the incorporation process.

Director & Shareholders Documents
Passport size colour photo
PAN Card (Mandatory)
Proof of Identity (any one of the below)
Passport
Aadhar Card
Driving License
Voter ID
Proof of Residence (Any one of the below)
Bank Statement
Electricity Bill
Gas Bill
Telephone Bill
Mobile Bill
Proof of Registered Office Address
Proof of Property Ownership
Electricity Bill
Telephone Bill
Gas Bill
Mobile Bill
NOC from the Owner of Premises
Address proof for the promoter and registered office premises should be latest bill. In any case, older than 60 days are not acceptable. The bill must have the full name and complete address on it.
OPC Incorpration on Communication Address
A one-person company can be established using a “communication address” even before finding a permanent office. This temporary address allows you to initiate the formalities while looking for the perfect premises. It’s important to note that within 30 days of incorporation, you must set up a physical “registered office” in the same state and submit Form INC-22 to the Registrar of Companies (ROC) to report the address change officially.

gRevew
Process for OPC Registration in India
The OPC Registration Process is completed by following a series of steps. We have listed below the logical steps required for setting up your business as a single-owner company, a “One Person Company.

Step-1 : Documentation for OPC Incorporation
The One-Person Company registration process begins with preparing all necessary documentation. To register for OPC in India, you will need the promoters’ basic KYC documents and the registered office documents. Refer to the list of documents above for complete information. Also, since the application is to be signed digitally, ensure the promoters have their Class 3 digital signature certificates.

Step-2 : Select a name for your one-person company
The next step in the OPC Registration process is selecting a valid name for the OPC as per MCA guidelines. After selecting the name, you must get it approved and reserved by the ROC. For this, an application can be filed in PART A of the SPICE Plus form to the ROC. Once the name is reserved, it is valid for 20 days, and the OPC must be incorporated within this time.

Step-3 : Drafting of MOA and AOA for Incorporation
MOA is the constitution of the one-person company, and the AOA is its document of internal rules and regulations. These essential OPC documents must be submitted during the one-person company registration process. So, make sure these are drafted beforehand in the appropriate legal format. All shareholders must sign them and stamp them by a public notary after paying the applicable stamp duty.

Step-4 : Filing application for OPC Registration Online
Once all the documents and drafts are ready, you can finally file the SPICe+ application for OPC incorporation online. The form must be accompanied by the necessary documents and drafts, uploaded in their digital formats. Finally, the authorised director can sign the form using his class 3 Digital Signature Certificate. The form is further certified by a practising professional such as a CA, CS, CMA or Advocate of the High Court.

Step-5 : Issue of Certificate of Incorporation
After submission, the SPICE Plus application reaches the office of the Registrar of Companies (ROC). The ROC examines all the details and documents submitted for accuracy and authenticity. If satisfied with the submissions, the ROC approves the application and proceeds with the OPC Company Registration process. It registers the OPC and issues a Certificate of Incorporation in its name.

What is One Person Company Registration Fees in India?
One Person Company Registration fees depend on the company’s nominal share capital. However, while calculating the overall cost, registration fees is only one factor. We have other factors which raise the overall cost of OPC registration in India. These include the following:

Cost of Digital Signature:
The OPC Company Registration form is signed by one of the company's authorised directors. For this, he uses his class 3 Digital Signature. We provide Class 3 Digital Signatures for all promoters of the OPC.

DIN of Directors
All Directors of the OPC must possess their DIN or Director Identification Numbers. DIN is a mandatory information to be submitted by all directors in OPC registration form.

Stamp Duty Payment:
Documents like MOA and AOA submitted during OPC registration must be stamped and notarised. Stamp Duty applicable in the jurisdiction must be paid for this purpose.

Name Approval:
The Cost of Name Approval is also an important factor contributing to the overall cost of OPC registration. This cost is fixed at Rs.1,000 per application

Benefits of a One Person Company Registration
If you are going for single person company registration, a One Person Company should be your clear choice! Wondering Why? Go through the table below explaining all OPC benefits in detail and you will get your answer. From Sole Ownership Control to Limited Liability, OPC benefits are huge and numerous. They not only extend to its owner, but all other stakeholders like directors, creditors, and customers.

sole-ownership
Sole Ownership
The single shareholder is entitled to pocket all the profits of the company.

llp
Limited Liability
The liability of the sole owner is restricted to his subscribed capital only.

easy-credit-facilities
Easy Credit Facilities
Banks and Financial Institutions prefer to lend to legally registered entities

easy-credit-facilities
Easy to incorporate
The process of incorporation is extremely simple and 100% online

smooth-management
Smooth Management
The sole shareholder exercises full control over decision making in an OPC

perpetual-existence
Perpetual Existence
An OPC can be indefinitely succeeded by the nominee of each shareholder

OPC vs Sole Proprietorship
Both Sole Proprietorship and OPC are single-owner businesses in India. However, OPC is clearly a better choice for a single entrepreneur owing to several factors. These include easy incorporation, distinct legal identity, limited liability and so on. The table below draws a comprehensive and detailed comparison between the two businesses and highlights their pros and cons. It is insightful enough to help you make an informed choice.

One Person Company (OPC)	Sole Proprietorship
Merits (Pros)

Distinct Legal Identity
Limited Liability
Separate Management Structure
Perpetual Existence
No Sharing of Profits
Transparent Operations
Easy to Incorporate
Demerits (Cons)

Limited Investment Potential
Greater Compliances
FDI Not Permitted
Restricted Business Operations (OPCs cannot carry out Non-banking financial activities)
Merits (Pros)

Easy to Set Up
No Requirement of Formal Incorporation
No Sharing of Profits
Lesser Compliances
Full Control Over Management
Demerits (Cons)

No Distinct Identity
Unrestricted Liability
No Separate Management Structure
Limited Investment Potential
Limited Investment Potential
Limited Period Existence
FDI not Permitted
Cannot Get Recognised as Startup by the DPIIT
Frequently
Asked
Questions
Q1.
What is the difference between One Person Company and Other Forms of Business?
Q2.
What is One Person Company Registration cost in India?
Q3.
Can an individual become a shareholder in more than one OPC?
Q4.
What is a nomination in OPC Registration?
Q5.
How to register OPC in India?
Q6.
What are the forms on which the director or shareholder of the OPC must sign?
Q7.
What is the prescribed format for NOC filed to register OPC company in India?