MoA Vs AoA : Difference Table
Points of Difference	Memorandum of Association	Articles of Association
Objective	The major objective of creating the MOA of a Company is to define the relationship between the Company, its shareholders, all third parties.	The major objective of creating the AoA of a Company is to define the relationship between the company and its internal management.
Purpose	The MOA contains all the foundational legal information about the company available with the ROC, like its name, registered address, capital, liability, and primary business activity.	The AOA contains the rules, regulations, and procedures involved in the internal management of the company.
Legal Provisions	Section 4 of the Companies Act deals with the provisions for MOA of a Company.	Section 5 of the Companies Act deals with the provisions for AOA of a Company.
Supremacy	The MOA is drafted in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act, 2013. So, beyond the Act, the MOA is the most supreme document of the company, and any other draftings or filings cannot contain any information or provision which violates the content of the MOA.	The AOA is drafted in accordance with the Companies Act, 2013, and the MOA of the Company. So, it cannot contain any provisions which violate the provisions of the Companies Act, or the MOA of the Company.
Structure & Content	The content of the MOA is divided into 6 different clauses, containing specific information in each of these clauses. Among these clauses are, the name clause containing the legal name of the company, the situation clause containing its registered address, the objective clause containing all its business activities, the clauses for liability and capital containing details regarding the liabilities of the shareholders and their capital subscription respectively.	The format of AOA is categorized into different tables, applicable for different kinds of companies. For instance, the AOA of a Company limited by shares is drafted according to TABLE F format. Further, each of these tabular formats are divided into articles containing the rules and regulations for the internal management of the company.
Applicability	It is mandatory for all types of companies to draft their Memorandum of Associations in the prescribed formats and submit to the ROC during their incorporation.	Although it is mandatory for all types of companies to draft their Articles of Associations, it is not mandatory to submit the same to the ROC during incorporation.