whatsapp
SetIndiaBiz
Login
Home
/
Startup
/
Company Registration - For Foreigners
Company Registration By Foreigners In India
100% Online, Simplified & Affordable
Setindiabiz is your one-stop destination for starting a company in India as a foreigner. We have over two decades of experience in setting up Indian Subsidiaries or standalone companies with 100% foreign shareholding in India.

Request Call Back
Setindiabiz is Trusted By Leading Brands

Content Reviewed By: Sanjeev Kumar | in

user
user
user
user
user
user
user
user
user
user
user
user
user
user
user
user
user
user
arrowPrevious slidearrowNext slide
gRevew
gRevew
Why Incorporate an Indian Company?
Open Economy
India is an open economy, and 100% foreign equity is allowed in most sectors except for strategic sectors.

Lower Corporate Tax
The corporate tax rate for manufacturing is 15%, while for other sectors it is 22%, providing an appealing tax structure.

Young Talent Pool
More than 65% of the population is under 35 Years of age, with 1.5 million engineers and 4 million graduates.

Big Native Market
A population of approximately 1.4 billion individuals with an estimated expenditure of $6 trillion by 2030.

Overview of the Company Incorporation for Foreigners in India
Regulation	
The Companies Act 2013
Companies (Incorporation) Rules, 2014
FDI Policy of India
Prof Fee	USD 500
Govt Fee	Depends on number of directors, proposed capital & state
Total Cost	Contact us; we will provide an all-inclusive cost of Incorporation
Timeline	The company incorporation takes one to two weeks after receipt of complete, duly legalised documentation. Please see the legalisation section below.
Process	100% Online Filing
Why Setindiabiz?	Setindiabiz is a team of experienced professionals with over two decades of experience assisting foreigners in establishing their Indian Companies, filing the FDI Report in FC-GPR, and setting up accounting and payroll for them. Our offerings are well structured and charged transparently.
Why Incorporate a Private Limited in India?
As a foreign individual, you have only two options: a Private Limited Company or an LLP. As per FEMA, a foreigner can not do business as a Proprietor in India, and a foreign national can not set up a partnership firm in India. Though LLP Incorporation with FDI is permitted, the tax rate is high. We recommend establishing a Private Limited Company, as the process is straightforward.


India Entry Options for Foreign Shareholders or Investors.
India is a promising nation with unlimited growth potential, a large talent pool, and a growing middle class, which makes it attractive for foreign investors to set up an Indian Company. An individual shareholder/investor can choose between a Private limited company and an LLP. Here is a comparison between the Company and LLP to make a well-informed decision.

Criteria	Private Company	LLP
Constitution Documents	Certificate of Incorporation Issued by ROC, Memorandum & Articles of Association.	Certificate of Incorporation Issued by ROC and the LLP Agreement between the partners
FDI	FDI is 100% allowed in most sectors. However, limited FDI is allowed in strategic sectors such as Media, Housing, etc.	FFDI is allowed only in those sectors where 100% FDI is allowed.
Taxation	The corporate tax rate is 15% for manufacturing and 22% for new Companies.	The Income Tax rate of the LLP in India is 30%
Incorporation	Relatively Easy	After Incorporation, the LLP Agreement is executed in hard copy and, therefore, complicated.
Compliance	Compliance is higher to ensure transparency and corporate governance.	Lower than that of the Company.
Eligibility to Incorporate the Company in India
1
2 to 200 Shareholders
A minimum of two person is required as shareholders. Both persons can be foreigners.

2
2 to 15 Directors
Directors are responsible for operating the business and ensuring compliance.

3
One Resident Director
One of the directors of the Indian Company must reside in India for at least 120 days.

4
Unique Name of Company
The Indian company name must be new/unique and not similar to an existing business.

5
Pre-Defined Capital
Incorporate a company with any capital level. No minimum or maximum is prescribed.

6
Legal Object/Activity
The object for which the company is incorporated must be legal in India.

List of Documents For Company Registration
Documentation plays a crucial role in setting up a company in India. The overall time required to set up an Indian company depends mainly on the time consumed in arranging the documents and their legalisation. The documents of foreign origin and those signed or executed outside India must also be legalised or as per Rule 13(5) of The Companies (Incorporation) Rules, 2014.

Documents from Foreign Individual

1.Passport
2.Address Proof
3.Colour Photo
From India Resident Director

1.Aadhar Card
2.PAN Card
3.Colour Photo
4.Identity Proof
5.Address Proof
For Registered Office

1.Proof of Registered Office
2.NOC from the Owner of the Registered Office
Incorporation on Communication Address
In India, entrepreneurs starting a new business can begin their company registration process with a “communication address” even before securing a permanent office. This temporary address helps you start the formalities while searching for the ideal premises. However, remember to file the registered office address details within 30 days of incorporation in Form INC-22 to the ROC.

Rule for Legalisation of Foreign Documents.
Rule 13(5) of Companies (Incorporation) Rules, 2014, makes specific provisions concerning the legalisation of documents originating from a foreign country for use in India during the incorporation process. Similarly, the signed or executed documents would need to be witnessed similarly. For this purpose, the process of legalisation would vary from country to country. The table below may be referenced for this purpose.

No.	Particulars	Legalisation Method
1.	Persons Visiting India	If you are visiting India on a business visa and carrying the original documents with you, then a Notary Public in India can attest to the same. However, you need to furnish a copy of your business visa and the Immigration Entry Stamped page of your passport.
2.	For Commonwealth Nations	Documents originating from Commonwealth nations may be legalised by notary public attestation in the home country. Please refer to the link below for the list of commonwealth nations https://www.setindiabiz.com/list-of-commonwealth-countries
3.	Hague Convention Signatories	The documents originating from the countries that are part of the Hague Convention may get their documents apostilled in the home country. The list of Hague Convention countries is at below link: https://www.setindiabiz.com/hague-convention-list-of-countries
4.	Other Countries	Applicants from other countries that are neither part of the Commonwealth nor signatory of the Hague Convention have only one option: attestation by the Indian Embassy or Consulate.
Process of Company Incorporation for Foreigners
Documentation plays a significant role in incorporating a private limited company in India by foreigners. The incorporation experts at setindiabiz are experienced in helping foreigners establish companies in India. The following stepwise process will help you understand the process in detail. We are available to answer your questions.

Step - 1

Legalisation or Attestation of Documents
The process begins with the documentation of the promoters' documents as per the List of Documents provided above. The documents having foreign origin need to be legalised as per the procedure prescribed in rule 13(5) of the Companies Incorporation) Rules 2014.

Step - 2

Obtaining the Digital Signature of all Promoters
The incorporation process for companies in India is 100% digital, and no physical document has been submitted. This digital approach ensures a streamlined and efficient process. The online incorporation filing is done by authenticating the Spice Plus form with a digital signature. As a Registration Authority (RA) of the Certifying Authorities such as Emudhra, SignX, and others appointed by the Controller of Certifying Authorities of the Government of India, we help DSC applicants collect documents and submit DSC applications to obtain DSC.

Step - 3

Name Search for Availability
The name of your Indian company must be unique and eligible in view of the naming guidelines and rules provided under the Companies Act. Broadly, the proposed name must not be the same as or similar to an existing company, LLP, or trademark. We help you conduct a thorough search of the proposed company name during the incorporation process.

Step - 4

Drafting of Memoranducompanycles of Association
The MOA, also known as the Memorandum of Association, is the primary constitution document for Indian companies that prescribes the object for which the company is registered. The AOA, which stands for the Articles of Association, provides the internal rules for managing the company. We help you draft these crucial documents at the time of incorporation of the company.

Step - 5

Filing of Spice Plus for company incorporation certificate
Finally, when the documents are arranged and legalised as per rule 13(5) stated above, we will help you prepare the Spice Plus form, the prescribed form for incorporation of the companies. The necessary documents are scanned and uploaded as attachments to the Spice Plus form and digitally signed by the applicant directors. At the time of filing the incorporation application, the government fee is paid. The approval of the Spice Plus form results in the issuance of a Certificate of Incorporation containing CIN, PAN and TAN.

Timeline for Company Registration
The time required to incorporate a company with foreign shareholding mostly depends on the time taken for documentation and legalisation. The following timeline depicts the time taken after the documents are ready and duly legalised. The incorporation experts of setindiabiz are readily available to help.

1-2 Days

Documentation & DSC
Document and information collection & Making of Digital Signature

1-3 Days

Name Search & Drafting
Name Availability Search & Drafting of MOA, AOA.

3-4 Days

Filing for Incorporation
Preparation of Spice Plus Form for Incorporation Filing

4-7 Days

Incorporation Certificate
Issue Certificate of Incorporation by ROC, that contains CIN, PAN and TAN

Frequently Asked Questions

Q1.
Why is India a good place to start a company?

Q2.
What tax benefits do companies get when starting a company in India?

Q3.
What legal compliances are required to run a company in India?

Q4.
Does a foreigner need to visit India to establish a company?

Q5.
Can foreigners hold 100% shareholding?
Blog
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
Cancellation & Refund Policy
Security / Cookies Policy
Partner
Contact Us
© 2024 - 25 Setindiabiz Private Limited - All Rights Reserved | CIN U74900DL2015PTC282029
facebook
twitter-x
Linkedin
Instagram
Youtube
Startups
Tax
Payroll
Compliance
IPR
Call Us

