whatsapp
SetIndiaBiz
Login
Home
/
Startup
/
Section-8 Company Registration
Section 8 Company Registration
Register Section 8 Company in India
NGO Registration as a Section 8 Company is easy, online and fast. We provide DIN, DSC, Name Approval, MOA, AOA and Section 8 Company Registration Certificate in all our packages with PAN and TAN Numbers.

See Pricing
Request Call Back
Setindiabiz is Trusted By Leading Brands

Content Reviewed By: Sanjeev Kumar | in

user
user
user
user
user
user
user
user
user
user
user
user
user
user
user
user
user
user
arrowPrevious slidearrowNext slide
gRevew
gRevew
Section 8 Company Registration Cost
Item Included
check-box-blue.svg
Director DIN
check-box-blue.svg
Digital Signature
check-box-blue.svg
Name Reservation
check-box-blue.svg
Stamp Duty for MoA & AoA
check-box-blue.svg
MoA and AoA Filing
check-box-blue.svg
Certificate of Incorporation
check-box-blue.svg
Company PAN & TAN
check-box-blue.svg
100% Online Process
Start at
₹7499/-*
Get Started
* Standard Professional Fee, Govt fee & Taxes on actual
help@setindiabiz.com
+919899600605
Support you can count on
Section 8 Company Registration in India - Overview
Section 8 Company Registration is a legal process of incorporating a company under Section 8 of the Companies Act, 2013. Section 8 of the Companies Act mentions provisions to establish a company as a non-profit organisation with specific objectives. These include the promotion of arts, commerce, education, sports and science. Section 8 Companies also promote objects like research, social welfare, religion, charity, and environment conservation.

For Section 8 company incorporation, you must first obtain a licence from the Central Government. Following this, you can apply for its incorporation to the Registrar of Companies or ROC. The exact process has been detailed in the further sections. Note that a Section 8 company must only operate with the object specified during registration.


Checklist & Documents Required for Section 8 Company Registration
To register Section 8 company in India, certain eligibility criterias must be met beforehand. Section 8 Company eligibility criteria depends on the type of structure opted for incorporation. These companies could either be incorporated as Private Limited or Public Limited Companies.

However, both these structures require different criterias to be met. Additionally, Section 8 Company Registration process is incomplete without the submission of proper documents. In the table below, we have listed both the eligibility criteria and Section 8 Company documents required in India. This will help you navigate the Section 8 Company Registration process better.

Checklist	List of Documents
1
Private Limited Company
2 to 200 Shareholders
2 to 15 Directors
1 Resident Indian Director
Valid & Unique Name
Registered Office Address
Adequate Capital
Section 8 Company Objectives
2
Public Limited Company
7 Shareholders
3 to 15 Directors
1 Resident Indian Director
Valid & Unique Name
Registered Office Address
Adequate Capital
Section 8 Company Objectives
1
Documents for Registration
KYC Documents of Promoters
PAN
Aadhar Card
Address Proof
Coloured Photo
Proof of Registered Address
NOC from the Premises Owner
2
Documents for Section 8 Licence
INC-12 Form
MOA & AOA
Professional’s Declaration (INC-14)
Director’s Declaration (INC-15)
Next 3 Years Income & Expenditure Statements
Board Resolution
Shareholders Resolution
Sectoral / Regulatory Approval
Last Year’s Financial Statements
Last Year’s Director’s & Audit Report
List of Promoters
List of Proposed Directors
Section 8 Company Registration Process
Wondering how to register a Section 8 Company in India? At Setindiabiz, we provide full assistance in the Section 8 Company Registration process. Our experts help you prepare and draft the documents required for Section 8 Company Registration accurately. With our services, you can incorporate your section 8 company without any hassle or hindrance.

Step - 1

Decide Section 8 Company Objectives
Section 8 Companies are non-profit entities established and incorporated under Section 8 of the Companies Act. Section 8 restricts the objectives of these companies to the promotion arts, commerce, education, sports, science, and such other prescribed objects. So, the first step is to decide the object of the company for incorporation.

Step - 2

Obtain DSC & DIN
The form for Section 8 Company Registration and Licence both are online. So, they are authenticated or signed by the Authorised Director using a Class 3 Digital Signature. You can acquire the Class 3 Digital Signature online. For this, you can file an application to a Licensed Agency or simply contact us for assistance.

Step - 3

Section 8 Company Name Approval
The next step is to get the proposed name of your Section 8 Company approved by the ROC. For this, you can file an application online on the MCA website. Before applying, check section 8 company name availability to ensure the proposed name gets approved without any objection. We check your Section 8 company name availability and file the application to the ROC with 100% accuracy.

Step - 4

Apply for Section 8 Company Licence
Before applying for Section 8 Company Registration, you must obtain a Section 8 Company Licence by the Central Government. For this, an application in form INC-12 must be filed online on the MCA website. After the form is examined by the Central Government, a licence is granted in form INC-16.

Step - 5

Apply for Section 8 Company Registration
After all the Section 8 Company Registration prerequisites are met, you can proceed with the application process. The application for section 8 company registration is filed online on the MCA website. You must fill out the information correctly and upload the necessary documents in the form. The Form used for the purpose is PART B of SPICE Plus or INC 32.

Step - 6

Issue of Certificate of Incorporation
After the application is submitted, it gets thoroughly examined by the ROC. Upon successful verification of the details and documents, the ROC registers the company for the object specified in the application. It issues a Certificate of Registration in the Company’s name as a conclusive proof registration. Also, CIN number is allotted for unique identification of the company.

Section 8 Company Benefits
Prior to the introduction of Companies Act, no non-profit entities could be set up or incorporated as a corporate structure in India. The Companies Act, through section 8, provides the flexibility of doing so! It offers all the benefits of a regular company to a non-profit organisation, and makes it easier, simpler, and more convenient to operate. Given below are a few prominent section 8 company benefits to help you clearly understand its significance.

Limited Liability
Members' or shareholders' liability is limited to their contributions, providing personal asset protection while pursuing philanthropic objectives.

Tax Exemptions
Section 8 Companies can avail tax exemptions on income and donations received, enhancing their financial sustainability for social and charitable causes.

Perpetual Existence
These companies have perpetual existence, ensuring the continuity of their charitable initiatives, even in the absence of founders or key members.

Credibility for Grants
Registration as a Section 8 Company enhances credibility, facilitating partnerships, collaborations, and access to resources from government and international organisations.

Promotion of Social Causes
Section 8 Companies are specifically designed to promote social, educational, cultural, and charitable objectives. This enables them to focus on making a positive impact on society.

Improved Business Valuation
A registered trademark significantly enhances the value of your company because it may make your company more attractive to investors or potential buyers.

We Assist In Section 8 Company Registration Online!
Looking for Section 8 Company Registration Consultant in India? At Setindiabiz, we provide full assistance throughout the Section 8 Company Registration process. Our experts determine the eligibility of your company and assist in getting the Section 8 Company licence as well as registration. We have a robust team of qualified CA, CS, and legal experts available for 24*7 consultations free of cost!

Proven Expertise
Nationwide Presence
Online Service
Custom Support
Trusted by Startup India
Frequently Asked Questions

Q1.
What is the law on the name of a company registered under Section 8?

Q2.
Can Section 8 Company raise capital through foreign direct investment (FDI)?

Q3.
Can Section 8 Company invest in another company or form a subsidiary with the profit motive?

Q4.
What is the format of the NOC that a company owner must issue?

Q5.
Can co-working office address be the registered address of the company?

Q6.
Can a section 8 company be registered as an unlimited company?

Q7.
Can an OPC become a member / shareholder of a Section 8 company?

Q8.
Can an LLP or a Partnership Firm become the member of a Company?

Q9.
Can an LLP or a Partnership firm be converted into a Section 8 Company?

Q10.
What is the purpose of INC 12 application in section 8 company registration?

Q11.
Can a Trust become a member or shareholder of a Section 8 Company?

Q12.
Can a co-operative society become a member of a Section 8 company?

Q13.
What are the tax benefits that a section 8 company can have?

Q14.
Are accounting standards applicable to company registered under section 8?

Q15.
What is Section 8 Company Compliance under the Companies Act?

Q16.
What are Section 8 Company Registration fees?

Q17.
Can you set up Section 8 Company as a Microfinance Company?
Blog
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
Cancellation & Refund Policy
Security / Cookies Policy
Partner
Contact Us
© 2024 - 25 Setindiabiz Private Limited - All Rights Reserved | CIN U74900DL2015PTC282029
facebook
twitter-x
Linkedin
Instagram
Youtube
Startups
Tax
Payroll
Compliance
IPR
Call Us
