Public Limited Company Registration in India, Do it right. Get Expert Help!
Public Limited Company Registration is easy, online and fast. We provide DIN, DSC, Name Approval, MOA, AOA and Company Registration Certificate in all our packages with PAN and TAN Numbers. Start your company today!

Quick Service
Quick Service
Reliable Support
Reliable Support
Transparent Pricing
Transparent Pricing
gRevewtrustpilot-review.svg
Request a Call Back

Name *
Email *

country
+91

Mobile *
Type here
Captcha : 81 + 9 =
answer
Get Started
Public Limited Company Registration in India
Public Ltd Company registration is an online process, mandatory under the Companies Act of 2013. The respective application can be filed on the Ministry of Corporate Affairs (MCA) website. To understand the process thoroughly, it is essential that you first understand what a Public Limited Company really is. The entity is a structure governed under the Companies Act, enabling free transfer of shares on stock exchange platforms. Its ownership is held by multiple shareholders all entitled to limited liability towards the business. At Setindiabiz, we offer full assistance and guidance for Public Company formation and incorporation process.

Key Features:
Online Process
Easy Documentation
Affordable & Cost-Effective
Suitable for Large Businesses
Huge Investment Potential

Checklist & Documents
The table below contains a list of documents required for Public Limited Company Registration, and the eligibility criterias for setting it up. Both these are crucial requirements for a successful incorporation process. Public Limited Company eligibility criterias include the minimum number of its owners and directors along with the presence of a unique name and office address. On the other hand, public limited company documents include the KYC of promoters and the proof of registered business premises. At Setindiabiz, we help you meet the eligibility criterias with ease and prepare all the documents beforehand for a seamless process. Here’s what you require:

Minimum Requirements
7 Shareholders
No Maximum Limit for Shareholders
3 to 15 Directors
A Resident Indian Director
A Unique Name
A Registered Office
Adequate Capital
List of Documents
Documents of Partners
Colour Photo
PAN Card
Aadhar Card
Latest Address Proof
Registered Premises
Latest electricity or water bill
NOC from the owner
gRevew
How to Register a Public Limited Company?
Public Limited Company Registration process can be completed in a series of simple steps. At Setindiabiz, we help you navigate through the steps easily, quickly and affordably. We provide full support from documentation to application filing and track your status till you receive your Registration Certificate. The steps below will help you understand our services better.

Step-1 : Documentation
To apply for Public Company registration process, your first step would be preparation of requisite documents in their digital formats. These would include KYC documents of the Promoters, proof of registered office address, and NOC. Make sure you have all these documents with updated information beforehand, to avoid any obstacle in the process later.

Select & Approve Company Name
The next crucial step in the procedure for registration of a Public Limited company is to select a unique and valid name. You can consult us to determine the accuracy of your selected name. Once the name is selected, apply for its approval by the ROC.

Step-3 : Draft MOA & AOA
MOA and AOA are crucial legal documents required for Public Limited Company Registration. While MOA contains the legal details of the company, AOA contains the set of rules and regulations drafted for its internal management. Our legal team assists you in preparing both these documents.

Step-4 : Apply for Registration
The final step would be to apply for registration online on the MCA portal. You can use the SPICE Plus or INC-32 form for it. All the details have to be filled accurately and the documents have to be uploaded in their digital formats. To complete the form, attach the DSC of the authorized director.

Step-5 : Receive Certificate of Registration
Your Public Limited Company Registration procedure will be complete after you receive the Certificate of Registration. With the Certificate, you also have your Company PAN and TAN. Also, a unique CIN is allotted to your company for its unique identification.

Benefits of Trust Registration in India
Limited Liability
Limited Liability
Liability of Shareholders is limited only to the capital they have subscribed to.

Attractive for Investors
Attractive for Investors
Investors find it attractive for funding because of the availability of public records at ROC.

Preferred by Creditors
Preferred by Creditors
Legal credibility and high growth potential makes a company preferable for funding

Easy to Incorporate
Easy to Incorporate
Incorporation is 100% online and easy to process and can be completed in a few days.

Low Income Tax
Low Income Tax
Companies enjoy favorable tax rates in comparison to other forms of business.

Perpetual Existence
Perpetual Existence
The company exists beyond the life of its shareholder until it is wound up.

Private Limited vs Public Limited Company
Public Ltd Company registration is quite similar to the Private Ltd Company Registration process, and entrepreneurs often get confused over which one to opt for? Here’s a detailed comparison table weighing the pros and cons between the two, to help you make a better and informed choice.

Private Limited Company	Public Limited Company
Merits (Pros)

Limited Liability for Shareholders
Perpetual Existence
Distinct Legal Identity
Separate Management
Limited Public Disclosure
Tax Benefits for Small Companies
Flexible Ownership Structure
Demerits (Cons)

Restricted Ownership Transfer
Limited Capital Raising Potential
Transfer of Shares
Higher Compliance Requirements
Restrictions on Share Transfers
Limited Access to Capital Markets
Merits (Pros)

Limited Liability for Shareholders
Perpetual Existence
Distinct Legal Identity
Capital Raising through Stock Market
Easier Liquidation of Shares
Greater Investment Potential
Demerits (Cons)

Stringent Regulatory Requirements
Greater Compliance
Public Disclosure of Financial Information
Easily Register Your Public Limited Company With Us!
At Setindiabiz, we provide complete assistance in the Public Limited Company incorporation process, with expert services in application filing, documentation and compliance. We have decades of experience in helping startups kick start their business journey and set foot on the right legal path. We are quick, affordable and efficient, with a 100% online presence, so you can complete your Public Company Incorporation with ease and effortlessness. Here’s what we offer:

Proven Expertise
Nationwide Presence
Online Service
Custom Support
Trusted by Startup India
Frequently
Asked
Questions
Q1.
What type of businesses are most suitable for Public Limited Company registration?
Q2.
What are the requirements of Public company listing on Stock Exchange platforms?
Q3.
Who can buy the shares of a Public Limited Company?
Q4.
What is the liability of owners in a Public Limited Company?
Q5.
Other than incorporation, what are the annual Public Company Compliance?
Q6.
What are the benefits of online Public Limited Company Registration?
Q7.
Can an NRI or Foreigner own a Public Limited Company?
Q8.
Can an NRI or Foreigner be the director of a Public Limited Company?
Q9.
What is the time taken for Public Limited Company Registration?
Q10.
What should the name of a Public Limited Company end with?
Q11.
Can a minor own a Public Limited Company?
Q12.
What are the overall Public Company Registration fees?
Q13.
Who is responsible for key managerial decisions in a Public Limited Company?
Q14.
How to raise funds in a Public Limited Company?
Q15.
What are the essential Public Company registration requirements?
Q16.
How to register a public company?