whatsapp
SetIndiaBiz
Login
Home
/
Startup
/
Producer Company Registration
Producer Company Registration
A producer company is a group of farmers/agriculturalists for the betterment of their living standards and as a means to increase their collective bargaining capacity. We help to incorporate the producer company in India.

Quick Service
Quick Service
Reliable Support
Reliable Support
Transparent Pricing
Transparent Pricing
Request a Call Back

Name *
Email *

country
+91

Mobile *
Type here
Captcha : 2 + 1 =
answer
Get Started
What is the meaning of a Producer Company?
A producer company combines the best features of a cooperative society and a Private Limited Company, offering collective benefits to its member producers under a robust and definitive legal framework. Only business entities registered as Private Limited Companies are eligible for Producer Company registration in India. However, the names that these companies are incorporated with, shall end with the words “Producer Company Limited”. Individuals and institutions involved in Primary Production activities can come together and form a Producer Company in India.

Key decisions to be taken before starting a Producer Company?
What would the proposed business activities be?
What amount of capital must be invested?
What benefits will be offered to the members?
Who would be the first directors of the company?
What should be the name of the company?
What should be the registered address of the company?
Producer Company Incorporation Checklist
Businesses looking forward to registering as Producer Companies must first fulfill certain prerequisite conditions as prescribed under the Section 465 (1) of the Companies Act, 2013. These conditions are concerned with the number of members, number of directors, name, address, and capital of the company. A detailed list of all such legally mandatory conditions have been mentioned in the table below.

At least 10 producer individuals or at least 2 producer institutions as members
At least 5 directors
A minimum capital of Rs.5 Lakhs
A unique name ending as “Producer Limited Company”
A registered address for the principal place of business or the main office
gRevew
Procedure for Incorporation of Producer Company
A Producer Company gets registered as a Private Limited Company, and hence, the entire process of registering a Producer Company is similar to that of a Private Limited Company. The application is filled out by any director of the Company, and submitted to the Registrar of Companies, who verifies the details furnished in the application and the documents attached with it. Once the verification of the application is complete, the ROC shall issue the Certificate of incorporation in the name of the company.

Step-1 : Documentation
You must present specific legal documents in order to apply for the incorporation of a producer limited company. The section below contains a list of every single document that is required for registration. You must make sure you have all of these documents before even starting the procedure for Producer company registration, and if you don’t, you must make arrangements for them as soon as you can.

Name selection
A Producer Limited Company’s name needs to be distinctive and conveying of its brand and business activity. Additionally, a set of requirements that must be met to set up a Producer Limited Company have been laid down in the Companies Act, the Company (Incorporation) Rules, the Trademark Act, and the Names and Emblems Act. A company’s name cannot be the same as or similar to the name of an already-existing company, LLP, or applied or registered trademark. Read our article on requirements for name approval to receive a detailed insight.

Step-3 : Name Approval and Reservation
Once you’ve decided on a legally valid name for the business, you must reserve it with the Registrar of Companies in order to stop other companies from using it without your permission or stealing it. All you have to do is use our name approval and reservation services, where we will not only search the validity of the names proposed by you, but also apply for its reservation in the RUN (Rserve Unique Name) or PART A of the SPICe+ applications.

Step-4 : Filing of SPICe+ application
You can continue with a Producer Limited Company’s incorporation after approving its name. You must complete the online SPICe+ application found on the MCA’s official website in order to apply for the incorporation of the company. Part A of the SPICe+ application is used for reserving a name, and Part B is used for Producer Company Registration. Any director of the Producer Company may complete and sign the application before submitting it to the ROC, along with the required supporting documentation.

Step-5 : Issue of Certificate of Incorporation
The ROC, after receiving the application for Producer Company registration, verifies all the details and documents furnished in it. Only after the ROC is satisfied with the authenticity of such details and documents, he shall register the Producer Limited Company, and issue a Certificate of Incorporation to the company as a conclusive proof of such registration. Additionally, the ROC also allots a Corporate Identification Number as the unique identity of the company.

Documents Required for Registering a Producer Company in India
The application for the registration of a Producer Company must be accompanied by the scanned copies of the documents prescribed under the Companies Act, 2013. These documents can be categorized into the documents of the members, documents of the company, and the documents of the premises where the business is being carried out. An elaborate list of such documents have been mentioned in the table below.

Documents of the Members
Passport-size coloured photograph
PAN Card
Proof of Identity
Proof of Registered
Proof of Producer activity
Documents of the Premises
Proof of Registered Address
No Objection Certificate from the owner
Rent Agreement / Property Documents
Legal Drafts
Questionnaire For Company Registration
Consent of Directors in Form DIR-2om the owner
Specimen Signature of Directorsoperty Documents
Signed Subscriber Sheet
gRevew
Frequently Asked Questions
Q1.
What are the types of Producer Companies in India
Q2.
What is the maximum number of directors and members in a Producer Company?
Q3.
What are the eligible activities that Producer Companies can carry out?
Q4.
What is the term duration of directorship in A producer companies?
Q5.
Is it mandatory to appoint an auditor in a Producer Company?
Q6.
What is the time taken to register a Producer Company in India?
Q7.
What are the benefits that a member receives in a Producer Company?
Q8.
What are the tax benefits for a Producer Company?
Q9.
What are the liabilities of members in a Producer Company?
Q10.
Can a Co-Operative Society be converted to a Producer Company?
Q11.
What should the Memorandum of Association of a Producer Company contain?
Q12.
Is it mandatory for a Producer Company to appoint a Company Secretary?
Q13.
Are the shares of a Producer Company transferable?
Q14.
What is the role of a nominee in a Producer Company?
Q15.
What type of donations can a Producer company make?
Blog
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
Cancellation & Refund Policy
Security / Cookies Policy
Partner
Contact Us
© 2024 - 25 Setindiabiz Private Limited - All Rights Reserved | CIN U74900DL2015PTC282029
facebook
twitter-x
Linkedin
Instagram
Youtube
Startups
Tax
Payroll
Compliance
IPR
Call Us
